{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2821
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red24\green26\blue30;\red13\green80\blue209;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c12157\c13725\c15686;\cssrgb\c3529\c41176\c85490;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\'00;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww29740\viewh16060\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Diagnosing Heart Attacks using Machine Learning\
\
Introduction: A heart attack, or myocardial infarction, occurs when a portion of the heart muscle lacks sufficient blood supply. According to WHO statistics, approximately 17.9 million individuals succumb to heart attacks annually. The medical community attributes this heart problem primarily to lifestyle factors. This dataset comprises medical information about patients, which indicates whether the likelihood of an individual experiencing a heart attack is higher or lower. Analyzing heart attack cases provides valuable insights into predicting and preventing heart attacks by examining patients\'92 clinical characteristics and risk factors. Analyzing large datasets can reveal significant patterns and identify risk factors, contributing to more effective guidance for healthcare interventions. In the notebook, titled Heart_Attack_Analysis.ipynb, we will conduct an analysis on influential factors associated with heart attacks. Subsequently, we will make predictions regarding the probability of individuals experiencing a heart attack using various Machine Learning models and comparing their outputs to determine the most suitable model. The dataset we utilized was obtained from Kaggle.com, and the link to the page is provided below: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/sonialikhan/heart-attack-analysis-and-prediction-dataset"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/sonialikhan/heart-attack-analysis-and-prediction-dataset}}\
\
STEP 1: Importing Required Libraries and Data Cleaning\
\
\'95 Load the CSV file and convert it into a Pandas DataFrame.\
\'95 Obtain a brief summary of the DataFrame.\
\'95 Describe the DataFrame.\
\'95 Check for the presence of null values and duplicate records.\
STEP 2: Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA)\
\
I conducted exploratory data analysis to check for the unique value counts of all variables. I then categorized the variables into two groups: numeric and categorical.\
\
- Numeric variables: These variables had high unique values, including age, trtbps, chol, thalachh, and oldpeak.\
- Categorical variables: These variables had fewer unique values, including sex, cp, fbs, restecg, exng, slp, caa, thall, and output.\
\
I performed univariate analysis on the numeric variables and described the results after each plot. I also conducted bi-variate analysis on the numeric variables and the target variable (output) to identify potential correlations.\
\
Next, I performed univariate analysis on the categorical variables and provided detailed analysis outputs below the plots. I also conducted bi-variate analysis on the categorical variables and the target variable.\
\
STEP 3: Different Machine Learning Models\
\
I compared four machine learning models: logistic regression, decision tree, random forest, and neural network. For each model, we split the data into training and testing sets. I used the necessary dependencies and calculated the accuracy, precision, and confusion matrix.\
\
The accuracy scores for the different models are as follows:\
\
- Logistic Regression: 87%\
- Decision Tree: 83%\
- Random Forest: 87%\
- Neural Network: 80%\
To determine the most accurate model for identifying heart attacks, we initially tested four models: logistic regression and random forest. Both models achieved an impressive accuracy of 87%. However, logistic regression was chosen for further optimization due to several advantages. Firstly, it\'92s easier to interpret, making it more user-friendly. Secondly, it\'92s computationally less intensive, making it easier to train and optimize. Thirdly, it\'92s less prone to overfitting, which could be a significant concern when trying to identify the most relevant symptoms associated with heart attack incidence.\
\
In the optimization phase, we made several changes to the logistic regression model. First, we increased the maximum number of iterations from 200 to 1000, which resulted in an accuracy of 86%. However, this increase led to an additional patient misclassification compared to the initial model.\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
Next\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
, we scaled the variables using standard scaling, which also yielded an accuracy of 86%. However, this approach resulted in an additional patient misclassification.\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
Finally\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
, we implemented feature selection and scaled the variables, which also resulted in an accuracy of 86%. However, this combination led to an additional patient misclassification.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Based on these results, we concluded that the initial logistic regression model was the most accurate. The chart \'93Coefficients of Logistic Regression Model\'94 provides further insights into the most significant determinants of heart attack incidence. Sex was found to be the most significant factor, with males having a higher risk of heart attacks compared to females. Type of chest pain was the second most significant variable, followed by exercise-induced angina, average ST depression, the number of major vessels colored by fluoroscopy, and thalassemia score. In contrast, age, resting blood pressure, cholesterol levels, fasting blood sugar, electrocardiogram results, and the slope of the peak exercise ST segment were not found to be significant.}